hey this is Todd Walker like to welcome
everybody back for another video drum
lesson what you just saw is my take on
grooving in 78 time to 11 8 times so a
two-bar rhythm and basically here's the
most important thing when you're looking
into odd times subdividing or phrasing
meaning using counts of fours threes and
twos to get to the end result time
signature so for instance instead of
thinking for the seven eight one two
three four five six seven one two three
four five six seven you can use two
numbers I decided to use four and three
one two three four one two three one two
three four one two three sometimes it's
just a lot easier to think that way and
it makes the rhythm feel a little bit
easier when you're working on odd times
so for instance here 70 phrased four and
three one two three four one two three
now in the 11 e I kept the same exact
phrase four and three and added an extra
four on the end one two three four one
two three one two three four that equals
11 e now there are many ways to look at
these time signatures that I'm using now
and phrase it your own way but here's
the phrasing for an 11 e rhythm one two
three four one two three one two three
four so all I did was put these two
measures together seven eight and eleven
e the first seven is phrase four and
three and the 11 is phrased 434 so
here's the two measures together one two
three four one two three one two three
four one two three one two three four
now you can look at it as seven eight
seventy and forty it can equate a bunch
of different ways but I was thinking it
has seven in 211 so I'm not going to put
a transcription up on this but if you're
interested in experimenting with odd
times pick an odd number and then divide
it a few different ways and count those
subdivisions this is a very standard way
of learning an odd time so once again
let's go back to the performance tempo
alright so there you go quick little
study in developing odd time signatures
again there's so many different
approaches to this but I think one thing
remains the same when you're playing in
an odd time there's a few different
numbers that you can use to add up to
that odd time signature and using groups
of twos threes and fours will work
really well so once again I'm Todd
Walker thanks for watching I'll see you
soon